you might have heard that this year's
version of the electronic entertainment
expo better known as e3 was cancelled
due to the covet pandemic and that's no
surprise given that major events around
the globe have been scrapped for the
same reason but after the world pulls
out of this crisis the future of e3 may
very much be in doubt for reasons that
have nothing to do with the pandemic
but why i mean e3 has been a big deal
for a long time the show dates back all
the way to 1995 when the gaming industry
decided that it was tired of being an
afterthought at tech trade shows and
finally said screw you we'll make our
own event with blackjack and hookers
just kidding about that last part but
after game developers set out on their
own e3 quickly developed into an
important fixture for the industry it
became traditional for big-ticket
consoles and chart-busting aaa games to
be unveiled at the event and gamers
everywhere were envious for years at the
industry members who were able to attend
though it finally opened up to the
general public in 2017. so with gaming
arguably a bigger force in our culture
today than it's ever been in history
with the rise of esports and a
smartphone that doubles as a mobile
gaming platform in everyone's pocket
why would a trade show centered around
video games be struggling one reason has
a lot to do with digital distribution
and social media remember when you're a
kid and playing games meant getting a
shiny new console or shrink-wrapped copy
of a hotly-anticipated game on christmas
morning
obviously dedicated consoles and
physical media are still around but
companies can now get new games and
updates out to gamers quickly think
about how apex legends which has become
hugely popular was revealed with a
surprise announcement instead of a trade
show event and the rise of social media
has meant that developers can now get
information about upcoming titles and
hardware directly to consumers on their
own schedules rather than waiting for an
industry show nintendo sony microsoft
they all now have their own virtual
events focused on their products only in
fact sony didn't even bother showing up
to the 2019 edition of e3 simply because
it didn't feel a need to and it wouldn't
be surprising if other heavy hitters in
the gaming industry followed suit in the
future what's the point in announcing a
big name console at an event with
limited floor space when you're trying
to compete with lots of other vendors
for attention and eyeballs microsoft has
already reflected this trend by
announcing the xbox series x online
instead of at a brick and mortar event
then throw in the fact that e3 is facing
increasingly stiff competition from
other shows like gamescom or pax
or ltx
which are more focused on gamers and
consumers than they are in industry
insiders potentially making them more
appealing to developers who immediately
want to create buzz with fans even one
of e3's own has contributed to the
show's decline
jeff keely who was a broadcaster for
e3's live streams and a fixture of the
event announced he would not be at the
show prior to its cancellation instead
keeley announced that he'd be running
his own summer game fest which could be
seen as yet another competitor to e3 now
e3 has responded by attempting to bring
more interactivity to the show and make
it a little less focused solely on the
business side of the industry but it's
unclear if this will make an impact once
the show returns in 2021 though i wonder
how much interactivity there will really
be if we all have to stand six feet
apart this episode is brought to you by
the ifixit protech toolkit the ifixit
protect toolkit will help you tackle any
electronics repair challenge you get
over 13 different tools including a
64-piece screwdriver kit a steel pry
blade called the jimmy and a suction cup
for removing phone and tablet glass you
don't need to be a genius to do this
stuff you just need the right tools and
all ifixit tools are backed by a
lifetime warranty so you've got nothing
to lose thanks for watching guys if you
like this video give it a thumbs up hit
subscribe and be sure to hit us up in
the comments section with your
suggestion for topics that we should
cover in the future